Abstract: 

This project analyzes drug related deaths in Connecticut from 2012-2021. I wanted to do this research because the United States of America is number one in the world for drug related deaths. Furthemore, drug related deaths are projected to increase. Lastly, drug addiction and drug related deaths have exploded in Seattle over the past 5 years. The data set I selected  is derived from an investigation by the Office of the Cheif Medical Examiner which includes the toxicity report and death certificate. There are 48 columns and 9202 rows in the dataset. 

Below are my findings from my data analysis: 
Analyzing the most prevalent drugs in overdoses: I found that the most people have died from overdosing on opiates (6482 people). This is consistent with my previous research on overdoses in the United States of America. The following drugs are ordered by prevalence in drug overdoses in Connecticut: Fentanyl and Fentanyl Analouge (6398 people), Heroin (3347 people), and Cocaine (3171 people).

Analyzing Sex and its correlation with Drug Overdoses: I found that there was biological sex recording for every single individual in this dataset(9202). Furthermore, the proportion of male to female individuals who died from drug overdoses was staggering. 74.18% of individuals who died from drug overdoses in this data set were male and the other 25.73% were female. This is consistent with previous research that I did on drug addiction in the United States; this research showed my that there is a much higher percentage of males that are addicted to drugs than women.

Analyzing Race and its correlation with Drug Overdoses: I found that there were 14 accounted for races in this dataset. However, I did notice that there was no category for latin people. The races included seemed to skew towards including multiple types of Asian races: ['Black', 'White', '', 'Other', 'Unknown', 'Asian Indian', 'Black or African American', 'American Indian or Alaska Native', 'Asian, Other', 'Other Asian', 'Hawaiian', 'Native American, Other', 'Chinese', 'Korean']. The highest race percentage of people who died from drug overdoses in Connecticut were white: 86.41%; black people also made up 11.88% of the dataset. According to the US Census Bureau(https://www.census.gov/quickfacts/CT) White people make up 78.8% of the population and Black or African American people make up 12.7%.